docs/source/tutorial.rst, before:

Tutorial
========

This chapter illustrates how to run the wide angle PSF fitting using ``elderflower``. ``elderflower`` can be run in two ways: in a step-by-step functional way or through a ``yaml`` configuration file. 

We use a 800x800 cutout image in the test directory (``test/cutout.fits``) as an example. The data is observed by the Dragonfly telescope with the SloanR filter.

We first set out the object name, the working directory and the band in use::

	obj_name = 'test'
	work_dir = './test/'
	band = 'r'

The object name can be arbitrary which is only used for labeling. The working directory is where the fitting stores intermediate files and the fitting outputs. Available bands are 'G'/'g' or 'R'/'r'.

Next we define the boundaries of the box region to be fit:: 

	bounds = ([100,100,700,700])

The boundaries have the format of (in pixel coordinates):
	*([X min, Y min, X max, Y max], [...], ...)*

Multiple boundaries can be passed in sequence as an Nx4 list or turples. 


1. Run with functions
---------------------

We first import the functions from ``elderflower.task``:

.. code-block:: python
	
	from elderflower.task import Run_Detection, Match_Mask_Measure, Run_PSF_Fitting

(1) Detection
+++++++++++++

``Run_Detection`` will run SExtractor to generate a catalog for crossmatch ``{obj_name}-{band}_cat.fits`` and a first segmentation map ``{obj_name}-{band}_seg.fits``. 

.. code-block:: python

	ZP = Run_Detection('cutout.fits', obj_name, band,
			   threshold=5, work_dir=work_dir, 
			   executable=SE_executable,
			   ZP_keyname='REFZP', ZP=None)

.. note:: 

	The package will search the location of SExtractor automatically. The user can also specify the path of the SExtractor executable, e.g.:

    	 SE_executable = '/opt/local/bin/source-extractor'

	The path can be retrieved by running ``$which sex`` or ``$which source-extractor``, depedning on the SExtractor version.

The ``MAG_AUTO`` from SExtractor are used to group stars for different treatments according to their brightness. To convert flux into magnitudes it will try to find a zero-point ``ZP_keyname`` in the fits header. Alternatively one can pass a value by ``ZP`` if the value has been computed elsewhere. 

.. note:: A zero-point will be computed, if neither ``ZP_keyname`` or ``ZP`` is given. Temporarily, the Dragonfly data reductoin pipeline  (author: Johnny Greco et al.) ``dfreduce`` is required for finding the zero-point. In this case either a reference catalog (``ref_cat``) or the APASS directory (``apass_dir``) is needed, which requires extra effort. See API of ``Run_Detection``. We recommend the user to have the zero-point ready.

Running ``Run_Detection`` is optional. The following steps can still be run by putting a SExtractor catalog named ``{obj_name}-{band}_cat.fits`` containing the following parameters: 

	NUMBER, X_WORLD, Y_WORLD, FLUXERR_AUTO, MAG_AUTO, MU_MAX, CLASS_STAR, ELLIPTICITY

and a segementation map named ``{obj_name}-{band}_seg.fits`` in ``work_dir``.

(2) Preparation
+++++++++++++++

``Match_Mask_Measure`` does all the messy preparatory work, including: 

1) crossmatch stars detected with PANSTARRS;

2) calculate color term;

3) empirically add back unmatched stars and correct saturation; 

4) build a basement mask map for dim stars; 

5) measure brightness at a scale radius ``r_scale``.

.. code-block:: python

	Match_Mask_Measure('cutout.fits', 
			   bounds, obj_name, band,
			   ZP=ZP, pixel_scale=2.5, 
			   r_scale=12, field_pad=50, 
			   use_PS1_DR2=False, 
			   work_dir=work_dir)

The pixel scale of Dragonfly is 2.5 arcsec/pixel. The scaling radius ``r_scale`` is chosen to be out of inner saturation radius. The default value (0.5 arcmin) works for a 7 mag star in Dragonfly images. For visible bright stars, a larger value is required to avoid saturation.

``use_PS1_DR2`` decides whether to cross-match with PANSTARRS DR1 (through vizier) or DR2 (through MAST request). The former method is done across the field of view, while the latter is done only for where the patches cover. ``field_pad`` restricts the cross-match with paddings, which is only used when ``use_PS1_DR2=False``.

.. note:: PANSTARRS DR2 contains more entries and more rigorous catalog values but are prone to fail in the query if one patch is too large (say, > 1x1 deg^2). In this case try ``use_PS1_DR2=False``.


``Match_Mask_Measure`` will generate several diagnostic plots if ``draw=True``.

From top to bottom, those are:

1) A panoramic view of the image with intended regions marked in sequence.

2) MU_MAX vs MAG_AUTO to pick out & mask potential extended sources.

3) Color correction between the image filter and the PANSTARRS filter.

4) Corrected MAG_AUTO (MAG_AUTO_corr) vs MAG_AUTO. Very bright stars missed in the crossmatch are manually added based on MAG_AUTO_corr. The correction is more robust with more/larger regions if ``use_PS1_DR2=True``.

5) Log radius (in pixel) of aperture mask vs catalog magnitudes. The apertures are for masking dim stars.

6) Modified segmentation map.

7) 1d profiles of stars < ``mag_limit`` (default: 15 mag). The colors indicate the magnitude. Some stars may appear to be faint with the magnitude but are actually bright.


(3) Fitting
+++++++++++

Finally, ``Run_PSF_Fitting`` does the fitting work:

.. code-block:: python

	samplers = Run_PSF_Fitting('cutout.fits',
				   bounds, obj_name, band, 
				   mag_threshold=[13.,10.5],
				   n_spline=3, n_cpu=4, 
				   ZP=ZP, pad=100, 
				   r_scale=12, r_core=24, 
				   pixel_scale=2.5,
				   use_PS1_DR2=False,
				   work_dir=work_dir)

The PSF model is composed of a Moffat core and a multi-power law aureole. We use a three component power law for the modeling of the aureole by setting ``n_spline=3``. As ``n_spline`` increases, the time it takes to converge also increases.

Stars with magnitudes 13.5 ~ 10.5 will be modelled as MB ('Meidum bright') stars and rendered as stamps by Galsim in Fourier space. Stars brighter than 10.5 will be modelled as VB ('Very Bright') stars and rendered in real space. 

``r_scale`` and ``pixel_scale`` should be consistent with the previous step. The core part (within ``r_core`` =24 pix) of bright stars will be masked. 

``n_cpu`` specifies the number of CPU in use when parallelization is available.

``pad`` is the padding size accounting for bright stars near or outside borders. The actual region in fit is therefore [X min + pad, Y min + pad, X max - pad, Y max - pad].

Below shows the output cornerplot of the fitted parameters of the PSF aureole.

.. image:: images/Cornerplot2p_test.png
	:align: center

Below shows the output of the fitting (stars + background), the fitted bright stars and the data after subtraction of bright stars.

.. image:: images/Comparison_fit_data2D2p_test.png
	:align: center

*Run_PSF_Fitting* returns a list of ``Sampler`` class which contains all the fitting info. Each item corresponds to the region specified in ``bounds`` in sequence.


2. Run with ``config.yaml``
---------------------------

The fitting can also be run with a ``.yaml`` configuration file. The functions are wrapped ino a class ``berry``. Parameters of ``Match_Mask_Measure`` and ``Run_PSF_Fitting`` can be provided through the ``.yaml`` file. 
The parameters are stored in ``elder.parameters``. In addition, parameters of ``Run_Detection`` can be provided as ``**kwargs`` to ``.detection``.

.. code-block:: python

    from elderflower.task import berry  

    bounds = ([100,100,700,700])
    elder = berry('cutout.fits', bounds,
		  obj_name='test', band='r',
		  work_dir='./test/',
		  config_file='configs/config.yaml') 

    elder.detection(executable=SE_executable)
    elder.run()

It will complete procedures above in the functional mode and generate the same outputs.


3. Read fitting results
-----------------------

The fitting results are saved as a pickled file ``.res`` under ``work_dir``. It can be read as a ``Sampler`` class through::

	from elderflower.sampler import Sampler
	sampler = Sampler.read_results('test/test-r-A-X[100-700]Y[100-700]-fit3p.res')

One can then plot the PDF by::

	sampler.cornerplot(figsize=(12,12), title_fmt='.3f')

Plotting options can be changed by passing them as ``**kwargs`` of the function in ``dynesty.plotting``. See https://dynesty.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html#dynesty.plotting.cornerplot.

To reconstruct the PSF, one can run::

	from elderflower.utils import make_psf_from_fit
	psf, params = make_psf_from_fit(sampler)

	psf_core = psf.generate_core()
	psf_aureole, psf_size = psf.generate_aureole(psf_range=1200) # arcsec

The psf can be visualized in 1D or 2D::

	# Draw PSF in 1D
	psf.plot_PSF_model_galsim()

	# Draw PSF in 2D
	image_psf = psf.image_psf.array

	from eldeflower.plotting import LogNorm
	plt.imshow(image_psf, norm=LogNorm(), vmin=1e-8, vmax=1e-5, cmap='viridis')

.. image:: images/reconstruct_psf_test_1d.png
	:scale: 40
	:align: center

.. image:: images/reconstruct_psf_test_2d.png
	:scale: 50
	:align: center


The 2D PSF model can then be saved as a fits file.

To regenerate the fitted image and bright stars::

	from elderflower.io import load_pickle
	stars = load_pickle('test/test-r-A-X[100-700]Y[100-700]-stars.pkl')
	sampler.generate_fit(psf, stars)

The fitted image is stored as ``sampler.image_fit`` and image of bright stars is saved as ``sampler.image_stars``. The original image is stored as ``sampler.image``.

Commit message:

update read result doc
update doc; make psf an optional input in make_psf_from_fit; fix cornerplot after load_results

docs/source/tutorial.rst, after:

Tutorial
========

This chapter illustrates how to run the wide angle PSF fitting using ``elderflower``. ``elderflower`` can be run in two ways: in a step-by-step functional way or through a ``yaml`` configuration file. 

We use a 800x800 cutout image in the test directory (``test/cutout.fits``) as an example. The data is observed by the Dragonfly telescope with the SloanR filter.

We first set out the object name, the working directory and the band in use::

	obj_name = 'test'
	work_dir = './test/'
	band = 'r'

The object name can be arbitrary which is only used for labeling. The working directory is where the fitting stores intermediate files and the fitting outputs. Available bands are 'G'/'g' or 'R'/'r'.

Next we define the boundaries of the box region to be fit:: 

	bounds = ([100,100,700,700])

The boundaries have the format of (in pixel coordinates):
	*([X min, Y min, X max, Y max], [...], ...)*

Multiple boundaries can be passed in sequence as an Nx4 list or turples. 


1. Run with functions
---------------------

We first import the functions from ``elderflower.task``:

.. code-block:: python
	
	from elderflower.task import Run_Detection, Match_Mask_Measure, Run_PSF_Fitting

(1) Detection
+++++++++++++

``Run_Detection`` will run SExtractor to generate a catalog for crossmatch ``{obj_name}-{band}_cat.fits`` and a first segmentation map ``{obj_name}-{band}_seg.fits``. 

.. code-block:: python

	ZP = Run_Detection('cutout.fits', obj_name, band,
			   threshold=5, work_dir=work_dir, 
			   executable=SE_executable,
			   ZP_keyname='REFZP', ZP=None)

.. note:: 

	The package will search the location of SExtractor automatically. The user can also specify the path of the SExtractor executable, e.g.:

    	 SE_executable = '/opt/local/bin/source-extractor'

	The path can be retrieved by running ``$which sex`` or ``$which source-extractor``, depedning on the SExtractor version.

The ``MAG_AUTO`` from SExtractor are used to group stars for different treatments according to their brightness. To convert flux into magnitudes it will try to find a zero-point ``ZP_keyname`` in the fits header. Alternatively one can pass a value by ``ZP`` if the value has been computed elsewhere. 

.. note:: A zero-point will be computed, if neither ``ZP_keyname`` or ``ZP`` is given. Temporarily, the Dragonfly data reductoin pipeline  (author: Johnny Greco et al.) ``dfreduce`` is required for finding the zero-point. In this case either a reference catalog (``ref_cat``) or the APASS directory (``apass_dir``) is needed, which requires extra effort. See API of ``Run_Detection``. We recommend the user to have the zero-point ready.

Running ``Run_Detection`` is optional. The following steps can still be run by putting a SExtractor catalog named ``{obj_name}-{band}_cat.fits`` containing the following parameters: 

	NUMBER, X_WORLD, Y_WORLD, FLUXERR_AUTO, MAG_AUTO, MU_MAX, CLASS_STAR, ELLIPTICITY

and a segementation map named ``{obj_name}-{band}_seg.fits`` in ``work_dir``.

(2) Preparation
+++++++++++++++

``Match_Mask_Measure`` does all the messy preparatory work, including: 

1) crossmatch stars detected with PANSTARRS;

2) calculate color term;

3) empirically add back unmatched stars and correct saturation; 

4) build a basement mask map for dim stars; 

5) measure brightness at a scale radius ``r_scale``.

.. code-block:: python

	Match_Mask_Measure('cutout.fits', 
			   bounds, obj_name, band,
			   ZP=ZP, pixel_scale=2.5, 
			   r_scale=12, field_pad=50, 
			   use_PS1_DR2=False, 
			   work_dir=work_dir)

The pixel scale of Dragonfly is 2.5 arcsec/pixel. The scaling radius ``r_scale`` is chosen to be out of inner saturation radius. The default value (0.5 arcmin) works for a 7 mag star in Dragonfly images. For visible bright stars, a larger value is required to avoid saturation.

``use_PS1_DR2`` decides whether to cross-match with PANSTARRS DR1 (through vizier) or DR2 (through MAST request). The former method is done across the field of view, while the latter is done only for where the patches cover. ``field_pad`` restricts the cross-match with paddings, which is only used when ``use_PS1_DR2=False``.

.. note:: PANSTARRS DR2 contains more entries and more rigorous catalog values but are prone to fail in the query if one patch is too large (say, > 1x1 deg^2). In this case try ``use_PS1_DR2=False``.


``Match_Mask_Measure`` will generate several diagnostic plots if ``draw=True``.

From top to bottom, those are:

1) A panoramic view of the image with intended regions marked in sequence.

2) MU_MAX vs MAG_AUTO to pick out & mask potential extended sources.

3) Color correction between the image filter and the PANSTARRS filter.

4) Corrected MAG_AUTO (MAG_AUTO_corr) vs MAG_AUTO. Very bright stars missed in the crossmatch are manually added based on MAG_AUTO_corr. The correction is more robust with more/larger regions if ``use_PS1_DR2=True``.

5) Log radius (in pixel) of aperture mask vs catalog magnitudes. The apertures are for masking dim stars.

6) Modified segmentation map.

7) 1d profiles of stars < ``mag_limit`` (default: 15 mag). The colors indicate the magnitude. Some stars may appear to be faint with the magnitude but are actually bright.


(3) Fitting
+++++++++++

Finally, ``Run_PSF_Fitting`` does the fitting work:

.. code-block:: python

	samplers = Run_PSF_Fitting('cutout.fits',
				   bounds, obj_name, band, 
				   mag_threshold=[13.,10.5],
				   n_spline=3, n_cpu=4, 
				   ZP=ZP, pad=100, 
				   r_scale=12, r_core=24, 
				   pixel_scale=2.5,
				   use_PS1_DR2=False,
				   work_dir=work_dir)

The PSF model is composed of a Moffat core and a multi-power law aureole. We use a three component power law for the modeling of the aureole by setting ``n_spline=3``. As ``n_spline`` increases, the time it takes to converge also increases.

Stars with magnitudes 13.5 ~ 10.5 will be modelled as MB ('Meidum bright') stars and rendered as stamps by Galsim in Fourier space. Stars brighter than 10.5 will be modelled as VB ('Very Bright') stars and rendered in real space. 

``r_scale`` and ``pixel_scale`` should be consistent with the previous step. The core part (within ``r_core`` =24 pix) of bright stars will be masked. 

``n_cpu`` specifies the number of CPU in use when parallelization is available.

``pad`` is the padding size accounting for bright stars near or outside borders. The actual region in fit is therefore [X min + pad, Y min + pad, X max - pad, Y max - pad].

Below shows the output cornerplot of the fitted parameters of the PSF aureole.

.. image:: images/Cornerplot2p_test.png
	:align: center

Below shows the output of the fitting (stars + background), the fitted bright stars and the data after subtraction of bright stars.

.. image:: images/Comparison_fit_data2D2p_test.png
	:align: center

*Run_PSF_Fitting* returns a list of ``Sampler`` class which contains all the fitting info. Each item corresponds to the region specified in ``bounds`` in sequence.


2. Run with ``config.yaml``
---------------------------

The fitting can also be run with a ``.yaml`` configuration file. The functions are wrapped ino a class ``berry``. Parameters of ``Match_Mask_Measure`` and ``Run_PSF_Fitting`` can be provided through the ``.yaml`` file. 
The parameters are stored in ``elder.parameters``. In addition, parameters of ``Run_Detection`` can be provided as ``**kwargs`` to ``.detection``.

.. code-block:: python

    from elderflower.task import berry  

    bounds = ([100,100,700,700])
    elder = berry('cutout.fits', bounds,
		  obj_name='test', band='r',
		  work_dir='./test/',
		  config_file='configs/config.yaml') 

    elder.detection(executable=SE_executable)
    elder.run()

It will complete procedures above in the functional mode and generate the same outputs.


3. Read fitting results
-----------------------

The fitting results are saved as a pickled file ``.res`` under ``work_dir``. It can be read as a ``Sampler`` class through::

	from elderflower.sampler import Sampler
	sampler = Sampler.load_results('test/test-r-A-X[100-700]Y[100-700]-fit3p.res')

One can then plot the joint probability distribution functions (PDFs) by::

	sampler.cornerplot(figsize=(20,22), title_fmt='.3f')

The plot can be saved by passing ``save=True``. Plotting options can be changed by passing them as ``**kwargs`` of the function in ``dynesty.plotting``. See https://dynesty.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html#dynesty.plotting.cornerplot.

To reconstruct the PSF, one can run::

	from elderflower.utils import make_psf_from_fit
	psf, params = make_psf_from_fit(sampler)

	psf_core = psf.generate_core()
	psf_aureole, psf_size = psf.generate_aureole(psf_range=1200) # arcsec

The psf can be visualized in 1D or 2D::

	# Draw PSF in 1D
	psf.plot_PSF_model_galsim()

	# Draw PSF in 2D
	image_psf = psf.image_psf.array

	from elderflower.plotting import LogNorm
	plt.imshow(image_psf, norm=LogNorm(), vmin=1e-8, vmax=1e-5, cmap='viridis')

.. image:: images/reconstruct_psf_test_1d.png
	:scale: 40
	:align: center

.. image:: images/reconstruct_psf_test_2d.png
	:scale: 50
	:align: center


The 2D PSF model can then be saved as a fits file.

To regenerate the fitted image and bright stars::

	from elderflower.io import load_pickle
	stars = load_pickle('test/test-r-A-X[100-700]Y[100-700]-stars.pkl')
	sampler.generate_fit(psf, stars)

The fitted image is stored as ``sampler.image_fit`` and the image of bright stars is saved as ``sampler.image_stars``. The original image is stored as ``sampler.image``.
